# BIOMD0000000278: BIOMD0000000278

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000278.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000278.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This a model from the article:  
** Modeling the interactions between osteoblast and osteoclast activities in bone remodeling. **   
Lemaire V, Tobin FL, Greller LD, Cho CR, Suva LJ. _J Theor Biol._2004 Aug
7;229(3):293-309. [15234198](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15234198),  
**Abstract:**   
We propose a mathematical model explaining the interactions between
osteoblasts and osteoclasts, two cell types specialized in the maintenance of
the bone integrity. Bone is a dynamic, living tissue whose structure and shape
continuously evolves during life. It has the ability to change architecture by
removal of old bone and replacement with newly formed bone in a localized
process called remodeling. The model described here is based on the idea that
the relative proportions of immature and mature osteoblasts control the degree
of osteoclastic activity. In addition, osteoclasts control osteoblasts
differentially depending on their stage of differentiation. Despite the
tremendous complexity of the bone regulatory system and its fragmentary
understanding, we obtain surprisingly good correlations between the model
simulations and the experimental observations extracted from the literature.
The model results corroborate all behaviors of the bone remodeling system that
we have simulated, including the tight coupling between osteoblasts and
osteoclasts, the catabolic effect induced by continuous administration of PTH,
the catabolic action of RANKL, as well as its reversal by soluble antagonist
OPG. The model is also able to simulate metabolic bone diseases such as
estrogen deficiency, vitamin D deficiency, senescence and glucocorticoid
excess. Conversely, possible routes for therapeutic interventions are tested
and evaluated. Our model confirms that anti-resorptive therapies are unable to
partially restore bone loss, whereas bone formation therapies yield better
results. The model enables us to determine and evaluate potential therapies
based on their efficacy. In particular, the model predicts that combinations
of anti-resorptive and anabolic therapies provide significant benefits
compared with monotherapy, especially for certain type of skeletal disease.
Finally, the model clearly indicates that increasing the size of the pool of
preosteoblasts is an essential ingredient for the therapeutic manipulation of
bone formation. This model was conceived as the first step in a bone turnover
modeling platform. These initial modeling results are extremely encouraging
and lead us to proceed with additional explorations into bone turnover and
skeletal remodeling.

This model corresponds to the core model published in the paper. There is no
corresponding plot to reproduce for this model. To obtain each of the 9 plots
in the Figure 2 of the reference publication, there are some changes to be
made to the core model. The curation figure reproduces figure 2 of the
reference publication. There is a corresponding SBML and Copasi files for each
of the plot. See curation tab for more details.

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2010 The BioModels.net Team.  
For more information see the [terms of
use](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/legal.html).  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)


